Right now our search params
page is getting quite long.
It's we're up to 90 lines of code.
There's no hard and fast rule for
how long these can be.
But if you're at 1000 lines of code,
you might want to reconsider
some of your life choices.
In general, the idea is that you wanna
have one component handle one thing,
just in general, right?
You want it to, this one in particular
like you want it to be like the page.
Then you want to like delegate
everything out to smaller components.
So like a good example of this that we
did is we have this pet component and
all this pet component does
is worry about being a pet,
it doesn't worry about
doing anything else.
And now it becomes reusable as well as
like if I have pets in multiple places,
I can drop those pet components
in multiple different places.
There's lots of benefits
to doing it this way.
So, one of the things we could do is we
could we have multiple these like labels
and selects, we could abstract that
into like a label control component or
something like that.
We're not, I'm not gonna do that because I
think for now, this is totally fine, but
that that would be a place that you would
consider decomposing this larger component
into two smaller components.
The one that we are gonna decompose into
a smaller component is the bottom half
of this page is like the results right?
So it might make sense for us to
abstract that into like a results page,
and then we could have that render here.
So what I'm gonna do here,
I have my pets right here.
I'm going to right click on this.
And I can click refactor.
I might have to do it this way.
Sometimes this works.
All right I'll just put it in a diff here.
So I just wanna show you one of the
coolest capabilities that all I did was
wrap the pets in its own div.
Notice there's a little light bulb here.
One of the cool things that VS code
can do for you is I can actually say,
Extract to function in module scope.
And this actually abstracted basically
into a new thing, and then I can just
move this across or we can actually
even get a little bit faster than that.
This used to work in closing scope now.
So that's one thing you can do, you can
actually have it extracted out for you.
In this case,
it didn't actually help us that much.
So I'm not gonna do that.
Step what I'm going to do,
I'm going to read these divs and
we're just going to copy or
cut it out entirely.
So I'm just going to cut that and
we're going to put something
here called results.
And we're just going to
pass the pets into it.
Okay.
We create a new file here as you
might guess we're going to call it
results.js and we're going to.
Import pet from ./pet.
And then const.
Results is gonna be = (props),
And we're going to return blur and at the
bottom be sure to export, default results.
And then we're going to.
Well, yeah, so we have the props here.
We know the thing that we want
out of the props is called pets.
So an easy thing you can do here is I
can put curly braces inside of this and
I can structure as pets.
So this is going to pull out of this
props object, something called pets and
call it pets.
So now I don't have to say props.pets.
I can just say pets makes my
code read a little bit easier.
So I'm gonna make a div here.
And it's class name is going
to be equal to search.
Okay, and then what I want to do here
is like if there's no pets found.
So if I say pets.length, We're gonna
use something called a ternary.
So I'm gonna put a question mark here.
It's basically like an inline
if statement for JavaScript.
If I can't find anything,
Then put h1 let's make it actually an h2.
So h2, No pets found.
Then after that colon again parentheses,
so if there's no pets found render this if
there are pets found then do or
do pets.map.
Pet.
Can do the same thing here
because we've been doing a lot.
Pet.
You can do the destruction here as well.
So if you wanted to change pet to,
animal blah blah blah.
I'm not gonna do that
I'm just gonna do pet.
Animal=pet.animal, key=pet.id,
name= pet.name, breed=pet.breed,
images=pet.images,
Location equals and then we're
going to do a template string here.
So backticks remember Pet.city, pet.state.
So the API gives it back
to us in city comma state.
And we want to give it back to the API or
to the pet component as like one long
string that's like city comma state.
And then the id=pet.id.
Couple of things here and
then we'll close it off.
So yeah,
let's talk about a couple of things here.
One something that people might
ask is like I'm already giving
the pet the id in the key place.
Can't I just refer to the key place?
And the answer is no, key only is used for
react, keeping track of changes, right?
So it actually removes that can't when
it passes it down to you AKA you cannot
have a prop called key ever.
There's only a few that are reserved
key is one and children is the other.
I don't think we talked we'll
talk about children later.
But suffice to say you can actually
pass down like components right rendered
components inside of
something called children.
So that's why you have to
separately pass down pet.id.
Now, I'm just going to show you don't
you don't have to type this in.
I'm going to show you the lazy
way we could have done this.
That's a bad idea.
So, if I typed it in this way I
could have done dot dot dot pet.
And then I would have
also had done key=pet.id
these would have functioned similarly.
So this is called the spread operator.
And JSX is just going to take this
object and spread it across that.
So instead of having to do these all
individually this would have just done
that like is spreading across
the entire object that got from pet.
Unless the component is actually meant to
be ignorant of all the properties being
passed in, don't do this.
And let me tell you from deep experience
with this problem, it makes us so
much harder to read later.
Because I'll come back here is
like what the hell is pep getting?
I don't know,
right you become unable to understand.
How the parent is interacting with
the child by reading the code.
Yeah, I now have to go into pet to
figure out what it's expecting.
>> Does this only work if
the key values are the same?
So if the problem is name and
the API is returning name.
>> Correct yep, so it'll only work if
these things won't are named the same
thing, which actually, location wouldn't
work because we actually renamed location
to something else and that the API does
not give that back to this location.
So this is exactly what I'm talking about
is like the waters become very murky of
what's going where and are we getting
the right things in the right locations.
So I wanted to show you because you're
never really going to run into this
because this looks so
nice and so easy to type.
But just don't do it believe me, having
worked on a code base that did this a lot.
It was incredibly
frustrating to work with.
Just stick to this, I know it's verbose
and takes so many keystrokes in my
fingers are so tired and please help me,
but don't just, don't do it.
It's a terrible excuse for that.
Okay, so
go back to search branch really quick.
Let's just kind of wrap this up and
make it work, we have results here,
but we have to import it at the top.
So we stopped using pet because
pets now only used in results.
It's not using search params.
So you can say import
results from ./results you
deleted pet up here and
then down here at the bottom,
underneath the form,
you put results pets=pets.
Now, if we go back over here, now we have
like a nice little search box over here
and we added some more CSS and
structure to it.
So, that's why that works now.